without further ado um i'll tell you a
little bit more about about peterborough
plus uh peterborough generates artworks
and immersive environments using
modeling and rendering software
projection mapping 3d printing and
machine learning through speculative
fiction wu artwork investigates art
estrangement associated with
technological advancement and modernity
in 2020 he founded and created epoch
which i was just discussing which is an
artist-run virtual experiment that
functions as an inclusive community
building platform inviting established
and emerging artists working in both
digital and analog mediums to
participate
being primarily artist-centric epoc has
established itself as a virtual
destination that challenges the status
quo with its critical and innovative
approach to curation and exhibition
building
in 2019 woo plus was awarded the cola
individual artist fellowship and the
public art division commission with los
angeles world airport's arts exhibition
program to be completed in 2022. he
received his mfa from the san francisco
art institute and his bfa from the
university of windsor woo plus lives and
works in los angeles
and so here are
um we're just going to take a one minute
break uh we're going to get set up on
the back end because this talk is coming
to you live and peter will be on with us
in just a moment
thanks for bearing with us everybody uh
it's always fun to do virtual events
i'm here with peter plus hey peter hey
how are you thank you for having me
thanks for the great area festival for
having me thanks for everybody for
tuning in um yeah
um
should we just go ahead and do this yeah
i've been you know i'm really excited to
you know i'm gonna kind of like chime in
in your conversation on your
presentation because i have a lot to say
about epoch it's one of my favorite uh
virtual projects that has emerged in the
past few years um it's a deeply
inspiring and super inclusive program um
that i can't believe you uh you know
you've and it's really taken a lot of
stamina uh also mention you know that
peter was has been i think the first
person to sell an entire exhibition as
an nft
which is a really which is a really cool
kind of historical milestone and you
know also helps us reimagine
what distribution of funds and how
purchasing and transacting can be
intentional and support a whole
community so you know i will shut up and
you talk now
um yeah just talk a little bit about
myself so i'm from a little town of
canada 3000 people where my parents
owned this chinese restaurant
and i went to school i did my grad
studies at the san francisco institute
where i started new genres which
basically means anything goes but my
focus was more in sculpture new media
installation
and then
after graduating i came to la where i
took up a lot of jobs in the art
industry from
working within galleries being an art
installer being a teaching artist
and
all those roles and the encounters of
meeting all these people along the way
was an accumulation of experiences which
led to the formation of epoch
so i'm just gonna share my screen now
okay
um
so
epoc is an artist run virtual experiment
launches
hang on a second we're not getting the
screen share
we're not getting the screen share no
just um
there we go we've got it now if i do
full screen is it not coming out perfect
we're good now oh we're good okay
um so epoc is an artist-run virtual
experiment launched at the beginning of
quarantine
the inability of museums and galleries
to adapt to an online world was rendered
evident upon the rival of kova 19 with
many institutions attempting to recreate
physical engagement through online
viewing
questions concerning the role of
curation materiality and the museum
itself have been raised
um epoch's unique approach to exhibition
building seeks to address these issues
by bridging reality with the virtual
through critical and compelling
presentations with nine exhibitions to
date featuring over 70 international
established and emerging contemporary
artists the gallery seeks to create a
new critical context to experience art
while focusing our mission to react to
current social political situations so
the first image you're saying here is uh
the very first show which is called end
demo
and um
it you know at the beginning to
quarantine obviously all of us artists
lost our exhibition opportunities so i
thought i mean and our job so i just
thought oh well i have a little bit of
time on my hands let's figure out how to
do this i've always wanted to do a
virtual gallery but it didn't actually
really make sense before the quarantine
and so this was kind of a a way for me
to kind of
build a community and and invite artists
that i respect and love and and to this
virtual environment
um so this is situated on this really
kind of bleach white island
and um it's kind of reflecting uh what
kind of the sentiments of what we're
going through this idea of isolation and
and uh
ruins so ruins the big thing that i kind
of go back to a lot um
it's not necessarily dystopic or utopic
but just kind of just kind of a metaphor
or an analogy of where we are
in our current state
um surprisingly enough no one wanted to
be in this first show
but
because i don't think that real people
really understood what the whole what it
was and it was just kind of really for
in itself so i eventually asked a lot of
my really close friends and thank god
they they they agreed to be in it and
because i think they really
saw my previous work and they knew kind
of what i was doing and so they kind of
entrusted their work in my hands and i
really really
appreciate them because it kind of like
from this point really kind of uh
blew up in a certain way um
now i'm not gonna talk about all my
exhibitions that i've done um but what
i'm gonna be focusing on more is the
shows that where i'm taking
um
actual sites and then
kind of bringing him to the virtual
world i kind of believe that tethering
um something that is in the real world
and bringing the virtual world kind of
can talk about the
things that are critically happening in
in the world and we can kind of like go
back and forth um
uh i try not to go too much in fantasy
when i'm doing these shows and i kind of
try to keep it to some sort of kind of
realism
but it of course is a virtual world so
there's a certain fantasy involved
so this picture is um
the this demolished demolished um
amundsen building in los angeles los
angeles so it's the lacma amazon
building
and so
when this was happening it was kind of
very um
uh controversial because it was getting
replaced by this other
building by a swiss architect named
peter zoomther and so i thought to
create it
as a
virtual show so i rebuilt the ahmanson
building from scratch and then i
demolished it and tried to kind of match
it up pretty as close as i possibly can
and i curated uh all nine or ten artists
in this exhibition i think 90 of them
were latinx and from los angeles
and um it's kind of just me talking
about the idea of the fragility of the
institution itself
um this piece is by katana ferreira so
what he did he had access he got a i
think a lachma art and tech grant so he
was able to actually
source actual pieces from the museum
when it was getting destroyed and then
he 3d scanned them and then we placed
them into this environment so there's
kind of this weird meta duality thing
happening
um this is a work by mario yavar jr and
he went out into his neighborhood in los
angeles and found the oldest building
in his neighborhood and this is an
ammunition bunker i think it was in the
1760s so what he did was he took a drone
and took a lot of images around it and
then we photogrammetried it and placed
it into the space
um
so this work is
uh this show is called wonderland and um
it's based off this site in china where
china tried to build their own disney
like park theme park
but and they tried to call it wonderland
but they lost funding
and so
all that stands now is this castle and
the kind of the farmers re claim the
land and whatnot and so i thought
um to kind of recreate this site and
place
artists within the site so
i just saw pictures online i didn't have
any blueprints so then i just remodeled
the site from pictures as close as i
possibly can
and uh place works within it now this
show is quite personal for me because
um
it has to do it was launched at the time
when um
there was a lot of backlash against
chinese americans so i curated a show
about uh
chinese
chinese americans but chinese artists
that are from the diaspora
so um
let me see
okay so this is a work by zhi zheng wu
and he's based in uh i think he was
based in new york but he goes back to
hong kong also
and
it
he placed all these it's from a video
that he's done and so he took models
from his videos and then uh placed them
in this environment and obviously their
hospital beds and so it's quite uncanny
to actually jump into a hospital bed
and um experience it from that view so
it was interesting doing this show
because i when i'm curating i'm i'm
really allowing a lot of agency for the
artist to do what they want so
um
[Music]
when when the people came and
sent the works in it was like uh
everything was really dark and macabre
for this show and i didn't ask for
anything so it kind of really captured i
think the sentiment of what was
happening
um this is a work by sydney shen she's
based out of new york and these are
shane biddles which were i think used in
the middle ages and so what she did was
uh
she these are actually physical objects
so we had to recreate them and model
them
uh digitally and so they have also these
marbles so you put your head in your
hand so if you did something bad you're
in the shame fiddle and then you have to
like move around and
get this marble through and it's a game
that she kind of created out of this
kind of ridiculous act
um
usually i don't put my own work in the
shows
but i think that this was exceptionally
uh
touching
and poignant show for me
and so i did this neon side that flashes
between the words assimilation and
annihilation
and uh this is by my hand my father's
handwriting and so um it's kind of just
talking about the
assimilation that asian americans kind
of go through to try to fit through fit
into
fit into a culture that is not owned
your own and with this in this
assimilation is you kind of lose
your whole cultural heritage in a
certain way so um
and so we kind of it's like a break in
into what uh
our backgrounds are so we're kind of
disconnected and we don't have places so
chinese or any asian diaspora
we have sometimes a lack of
connection between
where we're from and where we are now
and we it's hard to call
home what is home we don't really know
what home is in a certain extent
so this is the second to last show this
is called freeport and
this is modeled after the actual
luxembourg freeport
and um
so online there was the blueprints
and elevations of the actual freeport so
fortunately i got those and then i
modeled it pretty much to spec so when
you're actually going through the
virtual space you're actually
experiencing what it would be like to be
inside the actual freeport
now what i'm doing here is uh this is
the first time i'm releasing it in nft
so
um at this time
well before this
uh i was just doing everything
altruistically and i wasn't planning to
make money and i just really kind of
wanted to make cool exhibitions and have
a lot of great artists show within them
but when the nft thing rolled around
around earlier this year
a lot of artists approached me said that
i was kind of poised to do this so i
should figure out how to do this and um
that's what i did and um i thought it
would be a perfect show to have it
within a free port because
um there's a lot of simulators between
free ports and nfts where they are
both uh
and unregulated territories they're
constructs of capitalism and they can
elicit unsavory practices like tax
evasion and whatnot but with a touch of
irony um i see we sought to kind of
circumvent the similarities by offering
a holistic approach to an nft built on
ecological equitable and sustainable
models
so this is actually what the freeport
looks like
um
and this is the interior of the freeport
modeled
and this is what it actually looks like
again um so
let me just go back to this image
because it's hard to stare at the other
one
um so with this model this
what i wanted wanted to do with the nft
was
that uh i didn't want to mint individual
works and i thought what was missing
within the current climate of
of this whole marketplace and everything
all these things going on is that
um
there was just so much glut going on in
speculation that i kind of didn't want
to play into any of that so
what i decided to do well a lot of these
other things that you see online a lot
of the the gifts and stuff there's no
context and i always thought well epoch
has context in spades because that's
essentially what i'm doing is building
context for these artworks to exist in
apart from this neutral white wall and
um
i
chose to mint the entire exhibition so
as an nft you are getting the whole
exhibition as a standalone app
and full 8k and high-res audio and
whatnot
and um
yeah so
okay so this is a work by neil baloofah
so this is within um this kind of
storage area situation and these are
talking
paintings and they're kind of talking
about their
existence as nfts and within the
freeport and whatnot
this is juan cavelli and this is quite
an amazing installation that we all work
together to put together and uh there's
a great video that kind of accompanies
this
and so you can go through then you can
go upstairs through the freeport and you
can see works by alice bucknell
alice bucknell was one of the first
artists i wanted to get for this show
because she was really against nfts on
the uh
but
i kind of
kind of the model that i was introducing
which was more of an equitable and
sustainable model
uh in ecological so instead of ethereum
i chose to go with algorand which is a
pos blockchain which is 99.9
less impactful on the environment
and equitable is uh this is the first
time that this has been done also is
that i created a smart contract which
splits the profits between all the
participating artists and the galleries
so 70 of each sale for the nft goes
directly into the participating artist
wallet 30 remains of the gallery 20
royalties are
established for the secondary market and
after the end of the show all the
artists get an ap edition of the
exhibition themselves to kind of hold
value and then they can do what they
want with it afterwards
um so after telling alice all about this
she was really excited to be within the
show and i really thank her for being
here
this is the work by harad saab and he
really went through and modeled this
whole situation in this room
and he's quite talented at what he does
and it's uh there's a quite funny tidbit
in this is that you can go further in
the space if you turn around you can see
the back of the paintings or these
facades of paintings which are just
essentially
cardboard
texture no one really knows that but
yeah
um
so this is just
i've talked about this already
so this is my current exhibition that
just was released uh maybe two and a
half weeks ago
and it has a great list of artists
kaiken and chiang chang yi and tiara
ribeno are also in the show but also
we're speaking on the panel for great
arts as a festival and they are in the
um the new art city exhibition diorama
which quite weight uh curated
um
so this is the most pop show i've ever
done um
and the nft will be released on october
29th
so this
show i
modeled
this is an odd thing so it's super meta
so i am i'm working kind of with this
gallery in hong kong called wow gallery
well actually um there's two curators
that asked me to be in the show and then
they they wanted
the their whole artist roster in the
show and i kind of didn't want to do
that because i didn't
want to
kind of show there's a lot of
difficulties a lot of the things were
flat works and i didn't want to uh
i don't think a lot of time flat works
works the best in virtual environments
so i asked for full creative control
and so i got to curate the on the show
myself and kind of create the
environment so the environment is based
off the wow gallery street so this is
actually the wild galley this is exactly
kind of what it looks like
uh and the surrounding street with all
the buildings i modeled also
so
this exhibition will also be shown in
the wow gallery within a group show
on the 29th so when i'm hoping when
people see the show and then they walk
out and they're like wow there's there's
some really crazy
meta things going on here
um this is a work by
um dr wu he's a tattoo artist so um
this is kind of one of also the first
shows i thought to kind of expand from
not just showing artists but maybe
designers and other people that are
working in the creative industry and
seeing how that would go
and
we created this environment for him and
um
i think it looks pretty good
so this is another view of the street at
the end here you see
tierra
and xian xien's work
and this version is also in the new art
city diorama show
and they have other things like videos
and other sculptures are within that
so
uh i think they may have talked it
within this talk but there's this this
piece called aag which is referencing to
this cable that trans
travels through the pacific ocean
and so they when they approach me about
the show they wanted me to bring the
ocean the pacific ocean to the city and
i was like absolutely let's do it
because they were really thinking that
the
the ocean was bringing all these types
of places together like los angeles
which uh chinchin and i are based in and
tiara
is base was based in honolulu at the
time
and um
and then we're talking about hong kong
which is obviously the the pacific ocean
connects all of us together
this work is by gordon chang so these
are recreated after his uh window series
and um
in the real life they're kind of made
out of wood and they have these kind of
newspaper wrappings around them and
stuff like that so we try to match it as
quite uh as accurately as we can and
kind of did the installation
now obviously the show is uh it's called
replicants so it is based off blade
runner in a certain way i don't it's
like more like an homage in a certain
way but in the background here the walls
you can see the files that are actually
from decker's apartment uh from the in
this building originally
this is a work by jennifer west her her
work will also be in uh shown at the wow
gallery physically
and these are kind of
uh she picks up objects from the lay
river and um
kind of places them over these screens
and does these film treatments over top
of them and whatnot and we thought it
would be interesting to put it into this
kind of decrepit garage that's kind of
underwater also and
and kind of away from the street
um this is kaiken's work so she's also
in the new art city diorama show and um
so this is a really a high-res sculpture
that they provided and we place it into
the city and i actually built this
surrounding back city and lit it really
differently to kind of kind of work with
their piece in the back
um oops
and uh so this is another work by uh
jennifer west and this is a skyscraper
piece and it's a
video i don't have the you can go online
and it's best to see it on your laptop
so you can experience the whole
situation and
actually the soundtrack is done by my
friend um
conrad black who also did the
bellenciaga
virtual campaign
uh recently so he was obviously really
into blade runner and he agreed to do it
and
uh
and it sounds amazing it's really quite
emotional going through it uh
okay i think that's it for my slides
but that's just a quick overview of what
uh i do
and um
hello is anybody there wait
there i'm here and uh um so that's just
a just a quick overview of what i i'm up
with things i've done so far and you can
just go online and see them and if
anybody has questions then we can talk
about it
amazing um thank you for such an
in-depth tour through this through the
you know the recent history of the of of
the gallery
um you know it's what i love about the
show
is and this is the way and what i think
is really clever about the way that you
use the wayfinding um you know
technically is that you know in new york
city it's free movement and because of
that because of the way the images are
loaded we're a lot more constricted
about what we can do what kinds of moves
we can use whereas you get these
beautiful extremely high resolution
renders to just load what feels like
almost instantly
yeah and then you know it it is really
an excess and it it loads beautifully on
mobile it's such an accessible
yeah
so it'll work
yeah i when i first did the show
actually everything was animated um but
it wouldn't load on the internet because
it was just taking too much bandwidth
because it was 360 videos so right now
the three essentially you're moving
through 360 panoramas but what i noticed
is that
um
because i really wanted the moving water
and the sound of the water but funny
enough when
when you just added the sound of the
water people forgot that the water
wasn't moving
so that was an interesting thing to
learn and
um and by using the point-and-click
system which i chose obviously yes i can
use higher res images and uh really
utilize the whole cgi
uh
models and textures and everything but
it's also i'm
it allows me to kind of treat this
cinematically where i'm leading the the
person through each piece and and it
kind of builds a story
you know so i kind of see it and more
cinematically in a certain way yeah
and i think that that's it's
i love because something that you know i
i love to explore virtual worlds it's a
really you know
prom the the central aspect of my own
research practice and and interest um
and
i you know i i always really appreciate
virtual worlds where
the
the space is framed for the viewer it's
made to be seen it's not just something
that's been created to fulfill
a function of the mechanics of the game
it's something that or of the world or
whatever else it's something that's
framed to be something that is both
immersive and that you are embodied in
but also that you can look at in a way
that gives you this really particular
kind of vision that just
like while at one hand kind of removes
you but it on the other hand sucks you
in so much deeper um and each of the
like every time you and i think that
that's you know the way that you ins you
install the show is so clever in the way
that you move through these different
spaces um and it's framed beautifully
every time you click to another point
it's so intentional what you're looking
at
how you move through it and you feel
that intention and it's awesome it's
like you're being taken on a hand on a
hand-led tour and it's yeah very
connected
that's what that's yeah just leading it
through and and the point click system
really allows me to do that and uh and
building up that experiences where there
are things that there that can be
discovered and you can get lost in these
certain things too but it always kind of
leads you back in a certain way
and on you can also experience them on
uh with a google cardboard on your phone
so you can do that or but if you get the
nft
then you can use it with oculus or
whatever not so it's set up to do all
that stuff
um
yeah so that's amazing oh i didn't
realize that um that's so cool um i mean
it's it's interesting so i would love to
dig in a little bit more into
what the experience of working in the
nft marketplace has been like for you
this is a highly
it's a highly volatile space in the
sense that we have proponents and
opponents kind of like having very
polarized views we have all different
kinds of artists who are engaging with
this marketplace in very different ways
um you know and each marketplace itself
i know that you work that your shows are
sold on the algor on via algorand um and
you know you have a we have very
different communities that are
transacting
versus bitcoin versus tasers et cetera
et cetera so how did you kind of
navigate that world and um you know i
know you know a little bit about this in
your presentation but i'd love to learn
more about why and like how it was
important for your artists to to do that
and participate in this um
so
when all this came around it was
basically two or three months trying to
figure out how to launch the show and
with the nft and i didn't want to
participate on a marketplace
because of the idea of the speculation
attached to it and the the glot just in
itself and um i didn't want a lot of the
the mice the the work
to be shown a lot meant
next to say some weird cat gif or
something like that so there was a
certain control in the integrity of it
so i chose to
uh create the
the ability to buy it directly off my
site so
um and all the things that i've done is
all open source so the smart contract is
open source the button is open source so
essentially
anybody that has the kind of the
knowledge of how to interact with the
blockchain that could use that stuff to
kind of build that themselves so i'm
pretty open about helping people do that
and i really want other people to kind
of explore
and galleries to explore these kinds of
options um
yeah but the smart contract with
ethereum i did obviously didn't want to
be ethereum because it was ecologically
damaging and we didn't know when it was
going to switch over to 2.0 but um
and i did a lot of research and i found
that algorithm
was one of the more emerging ones and it
has a really really strong backbone and
a lot of people are developing on it
more so than tezos and more so than
anything else and there's like
and it's the transaction fees are
basically zero which is
zero it's one
0.001 per transaction
and it's really really fast and whatnot
so i chose algorand as uh
as
and the community is really quite
amazing i mean every uh blockchain has
their own certain kind of community
and you see that with uh tezos and
whatnot but uh because i don't think
we're on ethereum
it's more tight-knit because everybody
just wants to help each other so i have
been in communication with a lot of
marketplaces that have been really
wanting to show the work but
me trying to figure out how my smart
contract which would work with that
because it's quite this my smart
contract is quite something that's uh
hasn't not been done before so it's hard
to kind of place them into the
marketplace because of the variables
that i've made but i will be making um
uh i'm getting a lot of funding soon so
i will be creating a mini decks which
people can be uh
be able to trade the things on on
directly off the site so that's awesome
i mean i think that
yeah i mean thinking through like the
theme of the festival worlding protocol
how do we look at the world how do we
look at it as interconnected how do we
change some of the damaging protocols
and participate in meaningful ways that
don't constrain us to the kinds of
scripts that have been written for us as
we were just talking about with one with
wendy a few minutes ago um
and
i just think it's so inspiring for that
you wrote your own protocol you decided
hey i'm gonna participate on in this but
i'm gonna do it on my own terms in my
own way
well it's it's a lot you know a lot of
the the projects i do
are very subversive and and kind of
challenge the art world itself and the
model that it's kind of imposed upon us
and being an artist of color it's really
you kind of realize after that that
world isn't for us so
i figured this is an opportunity to kind
of build our own world and and build our
own economic system that helps and
supports each other so the smart
contract that i did was very communal
and it's equitable and
and essentially they're they're part
owner of the piece you know because
their name is part of the nft so
um
in blockchain really kind of in a way is
giving you everybody the ability if you
really want to figure it out to be able
to build your own economies and build
your own communities and your support
systems and don't have to you don't have
to no longer be beholden to these
marketplaces or the art world itself and
how it functions
so funny enough like when i release the
nft and it's done relatively well uh
sold three out of the five
and and
after that all these galleries have been
trying to hit me up and trying to figure
out how how to do this and i'm just like
well do you know what blockchain is and
sometimes they're like well we don't
really know what that is i'm like well
don't try to build something on your own
site you don't know what that is to
begin with and i'm not really here to
kind of walk you through and teach you
but and i don't really want to work with
anybody that especially a gallery that's
just there for the money grab now
there's some other galleries that
pronounce
approach me and they're way more
about wanting to build a community about
like
going to a different direction that
opposes the the art system which has
been around for 100 years and and
they're kind of worried i feel like
they're they're trying to get on board
but they don't know how but they're kind
of really
worried about what this means for them
because the whole the whole system is
changing you know
yeah absolutely and you know i i also
really appreciate you know this act that
you did of you know writing your own
protocol because
um
i think that what i've been seeing not
in every case there's so many fabulous
things happening in the crypto community
but in certain aspects i'm seeing
damaging systems that have been in place
being concretized reconstructed
repackaged and
chilled is something different
um kind of all under this guise of like
a utopian future when it's you know it's
all based on extractive consumption at
the end of the day
and so you know i i've been i've been
my biggest qualm is the is the
nomenclature i think in a lot of ways
and the convert and like how the
conversation
it develops because i think that that's
where
you know i mean i want people to call a
spade a spade you know like in order to
understand the world in order to build
it better we have to look at it for what
it is and not be bogged down by an
illusion or by a popular narrative um
and i appreciate you cutting through
that noise in so many ways with this
show and also you know just the idea of
you know in my in my view of a more
perfect in my view of a more perfect
ecosystem the artist proof is
quintessential and the fact that each of
these nft exhibitions each artist gets
that stake in it so even before
even before they you sell a single
edition and dividends or you know split
amongst however that is going to work
each artist has value just in simply
holding that token absolutely and that
is and that also makes the artist
a co-conservator a co-collaborator and
you know uh
you know it really enmeshes them into
the into the work and into the the value
that's created in a way that feels so
much more egalitarian um
and it's not just me i i mean i didn't i
can't i wish i could take credit for
thinking about all this but it's really
having conversations with a lot of
different artists
like katana ferrero he was really
helpful in figuring out the smart
contract and how it kind of breaks up
and talking about the idea of equity
because he's really into that
and um
and it's a lot of conversations of what
what what people want and what they want
to see in the art world you know and and
through that is how i decided to kind of
go about doing what what what i do so
um and i think you know this whole
community
aspect and and you know yes i add a plus
on my last name i think it's really i
added it at a certain time when i was
working with ai
and i realized that this thing could do
sometimes things better than i can i
could write better than i can it can
sometimes make a painting better than i
can and so i added that because i
realized that the future is not just me
and then when epoch came around then it
made more sense that it wasn't just me
and i usually don't add my name to any
of the exhibitions or anything i kind of
like it to be existing on its own kind
of terms without
maybe that's an identity thing that i
have drawn over but anyways it's it's uh
it but it's about the community and it's
about um supporting the artists and
trying to figure out different kind of
systems to
and yeah it works but it also it's also
in a way subversive it's trying to make
china trying to question what
what the current system is and how we
can do it better now i wouldn't say it's
called
utopic because i don't really believe in
utopia in a certain aspect
but
but it's an attempt to do something else
so
oh totally um and i think that's that's
that's so important it's you know we've
been talking so much about imagining
alternative futures um you know then
with the mori in one of the opening
talks was talking about how it's
quintessential that we dream at this
moment because without dreaming we can't
actualize
something that
it needs to be that would be so much
more
wholesome and generative and
regenerative in so many ways
um you know you've mentioned the
community a bunch and you know i think
that what you have done is fabulously
well as well is bring a community around
this gallery bring communities of
artists together you can feel how
strongly the works are in dialogue with
each other in each show
how do you go about doing that and
what's your kind of you know how do you
approach this idea of creating community
through the curatorial work that you're
doing
um
so a lot of the program 90 of it or more
is is women queer trans and artists of
color that's basically the focus that i
i wanted to go with um
but
just
curatorial and i don't really even call
myself a curator that much because i
don't write anything
so
um
in a certain way a lot of people who are
in the press ask me for press releases
and i say well i don't write press
releases but you know this is what the
show is about and if you want to write
something about it i really love to hear
what you're going to write and they
actually come back and write something
really amazing which is quite
extraordinary it's not a shelled out
repeated press release and i and i do
appreciate the support that i've gotten
through that because it's been quite
fabulous um
but for curation wise i i usually start
off with an artist or two i have in mind
and i have a list of artists that i i
want to work with in the future and i
kind of think about
what the show is going to be and the
environment it's going to be in and then
kind of working within the environment
at the same time takes shape
so um
sometimes the environment isn't always
there and sometimes i have input with
the artist so i really work closely with
them and then everything kind of comes
together
so
um
[Music]
yeah and then after i choose a two a
couple artists and talk to them and then
i kind of branch out like a web and see
who else could have uh
an interesting conversation with their
works and within the show too so yeah
i mean
yeah
i mean i'm not like uh you are
especially uh very very historical and
and and curatorial curatorial whereas i
i think it's it's a different approach
hey there's you know there's
a space where all of us here and there's
no way that's the right way i think you
know what what we do is make connections
between different people and see what
grows from you know watering the seed a
little bit that's you know kind of how i
how i think about this um and you know
hopefully through that you know care and
watering and kind of like tending to to
our to our little cabbage patch that you
know we that something really beautiful
can bloom out of that and that and that
work is not done by you or i that work
is done by the artist and what you know
what kinds of uh collisions you know
make sparks basically yeah um and we're
if we're talking about collisions the
reason why epoch has gotten to the where
it is if you're seeing it from the first
image i showed off the island to now
it's because each artist is bringing me
something that's really challenging to
do so i'm in each time i'm learning
something else that i can actually place
into the next show or in the current
show and like so it's an evolution of
experiences again where it's getting it
to this point so uh each time i'm
getting more knowledge and working with
them because they always bring something
that's like i don't know how to do that
but let's try to figure it out you know
so it's an interesting experience and um
and i think for artists themselves you
know especially i i don't usually i mean
maybe right now 70 percent are digitally
based but maybe 30 percent have no
experience in it so in the digital world
so i usually help them kind of walk them
through what is the possibilities and so
when you approach an artist that is
usually an analog artist
uh for the dirt digital space and
helping them through that and trying to
get their vision across um they're
realizing that there's no constrictions
to monetary scale or physics itself and
so it kind of expands their practice so
a lot of them have come back to me
and said wow this has really helped me
think in a different ways about my work
and then that that just means a lot to
me you know what i'm saying so yeah oh
no that's really cool to hear um yeah
you know i i um my my specialty and my
focus is really the online exhibition
format that's what i am uniquely
interested in and how we can share
rich phenomenologies through the screen
that don't feel like flattened
experiences that are native environments
for the artwork that is on display um
you know there's such a long history in
in digital art curation new media art of
like the the bad translation of
something that's taken off screen into
the physical world and rendered
anodyne or you know just
uh malfunctioning and just out
you know out of context um yeah like
that to me is the you were speaking
about this earlier like that's the part
to me that's the most cogent about
what you're doing is that you are
building native environments for the
work you are giving them a context where
there isn't one and not something that
you know as you know again i i make nfts
i buy nfts i'm really i you know i've
been participating a lot in that
community but my biggest qualm with
the way that we experience nfts is that
they're totally out of context that
they're floating around the internet a
link on openc here you know uh a portal
to a storefront on super rare there
and it feels like you might even have a
selection of works but then it's just a
scroll and then it becomes another
algorithmically determined thing that we
we encounter um and so to
approach this project and to
a project that is rooted in experience
first like the buying of the nft comes
after you've gone into the show and
you're you know you fall in love with
the worlds i mean i the replicant show
is so much fun i mean we did a little
tour the other night and we were going
through the different spaces you know
there are some really intricacies of
some of the elaborate uh tunnels you can
kind of go down in in replicas
yeah in this show there's a lot of
subtleties um
well there's some um you know hong kong
had a lot of protests so there's a lot
of things that are hidden with this uh
so it's within hiding it and see if you
can get away with showing it in hong
kong too
and i hope they don't see this but
um but uh
yeah so
um there at every work in every show
that i do there are a lot of
metaphors that i i add and actually each
show has an easter egg too or one or two
so there are things that are hidden
which nobody has really found yet but
it's interesting that you know i like
that idea of having it um i think the
idea of like uh
the why i you know when i first did the
the epoch i mean the endema show um
people are like well is it gonna be the
same thing the next show and i'm like no
it's gonna be a totally different
environment like what do you mean i'm
like i'm gonna build out every single
time a different environment because i
don't
this whole like idea of like
having something fixed never made sense
to me you know what i'm saying so
uh just being a you know a person of
color and people thinking i'm a certain
way i'm not i'm i think i'm trying to do
that itself so i i think like everything
i'm doing is as kind of a
reflection of
what i believe that should be in the
world uh and that you know because i
used to do web design too in certain way
so like logo like design was like the
hardest thing for me because i didn't
understand in my brain why something had
to be so permanent or like a tattoo even
for me i like i can't do it because it's
like that's just too
permanent and i'm constantly changing
and and
and so i thought that well let's make
like something like a gallery of virtual
space that's like kind of like a
bouncing ball which can talk about
certain aspects because of the context
and the things that i put into it so it
can kind of
uh
kind of reflect the world that we're
we're living through and so if you look
at the history of epoch
it's kind of an analogy
to all the things that would happen to
us in the last year and a half and it's
kind of interesting to see just the time
spans of each show and and and what uh
what the things that i'm trying to try
to talk about so
absolutely um
i'm so excited for to see what you have
coming up for us next there's so many
exciting things that i can i can tackle
i think i can talk about that one yeah
yeah i think so so um
uh
surprisingly enough because i did the
lacma show uh which was called phantom
limb the one that you saw with the
demolished amundsen building
and i thought they hated me because um
i went after the institution and it's
surpris it's weird every show that i get
i usually get like three or more pieces
of press but it's funny that nobody
wanted to write about that show
and i think it's because no one wanted
to go against the man
but when the freeport show released and
we had the artist sarah rosalina brady
in the show which she got an art and
tech recipient grant she showed it to
the head of lachima's art and tech
department
um joel ferrari and he approached me and
we had coffee and stuff like that and i
told him about algorand and what i was
doing
and he was like this is amazing i would
love to work with you so we are now
collaborating a show with lacma in 2022
early 2022 and um
uh yeah they're fully funding the show
and
giving me complete creative control
because uh
you know they were also the curators
there they were all like um we don't
want to force him to do something on our
terms let him do whatever the thing he
wants to do so i'll be curating um
maybe 10 or so artists from their
previous and current art tech recipients
within that show
and i'm not going to talk about the
theme yet but it's
kind of i don't know if it's getting
past but
it's pretty it's pretty messed up but
not that much
i appreciate you pushing the envelope
because i think this is really important
particularly with institutions and you
know obviously institutions have their
problems but it is but i do have to say
that it is so incredible to see this
work be recognized by an institution
like the lacma because i think that it
you know as as you know however you want
to argue this it does give it this kind
of um
historical uh this historical framing
it gives so much visibility it obviously
gives funding and support um and it also
adds a level of legitimacy in saying
that okay like even if you know whether
we agree with this what with you know x
y or z institution uh you know doesn't
you know whether we agree with them or
not like the fact that they're
recognizing this work and seeing it as
what's important which where the money
should be going and where the attention
should be focused just showcases how
crucial this work is when we've known
that but maybe more people will start to
take the memo so i'm very um cautious
about who i work with and stuff a lot of
other institutions have approached me a
lot of them just wanted me to recreate
their spaces and i'm just like well i'm
not you can just get a web designer or
get mad report to scan the place you
don't need me i have a special different
set of skills
and if and but i i
you know a lot of ways if you let me do
the
you know
think about what it is that we should be
doing and how we can talk about things
critically then
uh
it's interesting that i could come up
with certain things but um it's
interesting working with a gallery at
institutions because
i you know i've done shows where i'm
just being doing it myself and thinking
about things but i thought how do we
expand to kind of work with these kind
of other type of systems that are really
kind of maybe stuck in the art world
and how because i know the the thing
that i can offer so i'm appreciative
that they they see that but it's also
very difficult working with them a lot
of time because obviously there's a lot
of red tape a lot of things that they
want to be done a lot of things that
they don't want to
have their name on but it's like
and and i only choose projects where i i
have complete kind of creative control
over the thing and then we can and i can
choose the artist and that things aren't
really shoved down my throat or whatever
not so yeah
on your own terms
that you know i i think that that's a
great
place to to leave us today we're just
out of time um
and
you know i think that that's really
important is to
not just accept the scripts that are
handed to you you know not look at the
protocol that is defining what
is happening to you or how you need to
work but rather saying okay like i have
space here i have agency here despite
any constrictions that are put in place
and this is what i can do this is what i
can achieve and this is the stamp that
uh
you know is most aligned with my beliefs
and my work practice and all these
different things um so that's a really
you know that's some really wonderful
insight peter um and you know just
congratulations again on the up on on
the lack of the lachma thing and
congratulations on replicant show it's
absolutely stunning everyone please go
and check it out
um if you can find the secret easter egg
in the replicant show you will find the
gray area show linked there but it's a
toughy you're gonna have to really do
some scouring um yeah meanwhile
directly to the new art city show
there's a wonderful portal that leads
directly into the replicant show yeah
please go and check that out
thank you wade thank you great area for
having me and um everybody wants to
reach me on dm through instagram i'm
feel free to i'm always here to talk and
talk about stuff and share share ideas
that's so generous of you peter thank
you so much
bye